NOTE: Use complete sentences when completing this outline.  Do not use/write bullet points.  You must fully write out what you intend to say and develop your points with substance and credible sources.  Ensure paper is double-spaced and in Times New Roman 12pt font.  If you are using this outline as your template, please remove any item that is not in Bold (including these directions.)  Additionally, make sure you take the outline to the 2nd level and possibly to the 3rd level.  INTRODUCTION, BODY, and CONCLUSION are only labels and should not have any writing associated with them.  
Work on the Body of the speech first, then the Introduction, then the Conclusion and Transitions/Connective statements. Remember, this is a template.  Delete everything highlighted in yellow and put in your own information for your speech!  Delete this note as well!


Assignment Name (e.g., Informative Speech) 		Speaker’s Name: Ima Student

Subject: One or two words that state your subject (i.e., Mountain biking)

Specific purpose: Describe your purpose in one sentence (i.e., To inform the audience about…)

Introduction (This is a label only. Nothing goes between it and the Attention-getter)

(When you start your speech, always start with the attention getter!)


Attention getter: Material that grabs listeners’ attention and relates to the topic such as a startling fact or statistic, quote, short story, humor, or demonstration. (Do not use a rhetorical question.  They rarely gain attention and are not delivered properly.)
WIIFM or Listener relevance: A statement (or elaboration) that reveals how and why the ideas offered might benefit listeners.
Name and Establish Credibility: State your name and include a statement as to why you are able to deliver information on this topic
Thesis/Preview of main points: Alerts listeners to the main points in the speech.

Transition: A sentence that connects different points, thoughts, and details in a way that allows them to flow naturally from one to the next. 
Body

First main point to be addressed in the speech.

Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence (e.g., scientific research finding, expert testimony)
Sub-Sub Point - Additional clarification for Sub-Point
Sub-Sub Point - Additional clarification for Sub-Point

Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence (e.g., survey, interview, anecdote)

Transition: A sentence that connects different points, thoughts, and details in a way that allows them to flow naturally from one to the next. The transition shows the relationship between two main points and lets the audience know the speaker has completed one main point and is moving on to another.
Second main point to be addressed in the speech.

Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence (e.g., scientific research finding, expert testimony)

Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence (e.g., survey, interview, anecdote)

Transition: A sentence that connects different points, thoughts, and details in a way that allows them to flow naturally from one to the next. The transition shows the relationship between two main points and lets the audience know the speaker has completed one main point and is moving on to another.

Third main point to be addressed in the speech.
 
Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence

Sub-Point - Supporting material/evidence

Transition: A sentence that connects different points, thoughts, and details in a way that allows them to flow naturally from one to the next.
Conclusion
Signal: examples of signals are: In closing, In conclusion, Let me sum this up, Let me end with….
Thesis restatement/Review/Summary: A reiteration of the thesis statement, usually offered in past tense.

Clincher/WOW Statement: A final statement that reinforces main ideas, provides closure to the speech, and may tie back to the introduction (e.g., quote, metaphor, demonstration).
Works Cited
Ensure these are in correct MLA format